More data and background

Presidents and their policies on minimum wage:


Bernie Sanders, Democrat

In late July, introduced a bill to Congress that will raise the min wage to $15 over four years.

"I think if you work 40 hours a week, you have a right not to live in poverty. The current federal minimum wage is a starvation wage. It’s got to be raised to a living wage." 


Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat

Supports raising the min wage to a national minimum of $12, so it doesn't crush smaller economies, while some cities and states like New York and LA are free to go higher.

"Every American deserves a fair shot at success. Fast food & child care workers shouldn’t have to march in streets for living wages."


Ben Carson, Republican

Would "probably" favor raising minimum wage and tying it to economic factors, like inflation, so that it continues to increase yearly at a steady pace.

"We should index [the new federal minimum wage] so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of America."


Rick Santorum, Republican

Wants to increase the min wage by just 50 cents over three years. He believes that the Republican party should be concerned about regular people, not just the companies which employ them.

"A party that supported bailouts... a party that supports special interest tax provisions for a whole bunch of other businesses. But when it comes to hardworking Americans who are at the bottom of the income scale, we can’t provide some level of income support." -Santorum about the Republican party


Donald Trump, Independent

Not in favor of raising min wage, because he believes American companies would find it harder to compete with businesses abroad.

"Having a low minimum wage is not a bad thing for this country. We can’t have a situation where our labor is so much more expensive than other countries’ that we can no longer win."

Background:

The federal minimum wage is the lowest hourly salary which employers may pay their workers. It applies to all federal employees, including those working on military bases, national parks, and veterans working in nursing homes.

Currently, the min wage is set at $7.25 per hour. When adjusted for inflation, this is $3 less than the minimum wage in 1968. 

What happens if you give America a raise?

In 2014, President Obama proposed raising the federal minimum and tying it to an inflation index.

Do you support giving America a raise? 

Which presidential candidates for November 2015 share your opinion?


If this issue resonates with you, please cast your vote in this coming election.

58% of Americans did not vote in our last presidential election. If these 184,962,000 citizens voted this November, we could see real change and a more representative democracy.



Reasons to say yes or no:

YES... (58% total)

-and adjust the wage level according to inflation each year (6%)

-and make it a living wage (2%)

(most want to raise to $9, $10, $12, or $15 per hour)

NO... (41% total)

-because increasing the min wage will cause prices to increase in a neverending cycle (2%)

-because most min wage jobs are meant to develop experience, not support a family (2%)

-and eliminate all federal wage standards (2%)

Other considerations:

-min wage standards should be adjusted by age group (1%)

